---
layout: post
title: (Day 307) Covering sklearn's MOOC on stream
categories: [theory,applying-knowledge,traditional-machine-learning]
---

# Hello :) Today is Day 307!
A quick summary of today:
* streamed twice and covered modules 2 and 3 of sklearn's MOOC

## [Stream](https://youtu.be/dky6_YmP-3s)

Today's stream was longer than expected ~ 3 hours. 

### I covered a dbt course:

* [Refactoring SQL for Modularity](https://learn.getdbt.com/courses/refactoring-sql-for-modularity)

However, I just watched the videos :/ Again, because I do not want to deal with GCP/AWS. Nevertheless it was a decent course.

### After that I covered module 2 of sklearn's MOOC:

* [Selecting the best model](https://inria.github.io/scikit-learn-mooc/overfit/overfit_module_intro.html)

Here is the overview:

* understand the concept of overfitting and underfitting
* understand the concept of generalization
* understand the general cross-validation framework used to evaluate a model

It is all basic concepts, however they are very nicely explain, and also I want to do a comprehensive review before taking sklearn's official exam. 

### I decided to do a late night stream as well, and continue with Module 3: Hyperparameter tuning

Here are its main takeaways:

* Hyperparameters have an impact on the models’ performance and should be wisely chosen
* The search for the best hyperparameters can be automated with a grid-search approach or a randomized search approach
* A grid-search is expensive and does not scale when the number of hyperparameters to optimize increase. Besides, the combination are sampled only on a regular grid
* A randomized-search allows a search with a fixed budget even with an increasing number of hyperparameters. Besides, the combination are sampled on a non-regular grid

[Here is the link to the late night stream with no mic/cam](https://youtu.be/SZeE6ZpDyIk) ~1.5hrs

I am glad it was shorter because I got really sleepy towards the end

---

That is all for today!

See you tomorrow :)
