---
layout: post
title: (Day 249) Seoul Tech Impact hackathon tomorrow
categories: [nlp,applying-knowledge]
---

# Hello :) Today is Day 249!
A quick summary of today:
* Seoul tech impact team
* joined a team project to build a robot

## Found a team for the [Seoul Tech Impact hackathon](https://www.seoultechimpact.com/) 🥳

I don't think I have talked about it yet, but some time ago I applied to be part of Seoul Tech Impact - an annual hackathon organised in Seoul for devs from any corner of software/hardware dev and any experience level. I applied, and got in. The hackathon has a discord channel for all the participants, I introduced myself and have been looking for teams to join. Thankfully, today another participant messaged me, proposing they want to make some kind of an LLM that uses free models. They also said that their main goal is to learn. And I was definitely on board as my main goal is to learn as well, practice my soft skills (teamwork, communication, facing challenges, fast-pace) and have fun in my 1st hackathon. 

The hackathon is tomorrow, so this is great timing. I checked how to load some free LLMs, using Ollama, HuggingFace, and LangChain.

For ollama, first I pulled a model, like phi3 or llama3.1

```bash
ollama pull llama3.1
```

And this runs on `http://localhost:11434/v1/`, which I can then use in my code.

Using OpenAI:

```python
from openai import OpenAI

client = OpenAI(
    base_url='http://localhost:11434/v1/',
    api_key='ollama',
)

def llm(prompt):
    response = client.chat.completions.create(
        model='llama3.1',
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": prompt}]
    )
    
    return response.choices[0].message.content

llm('How are you?')
```

Or, using LangChain:

```python
from langchain_core.prompts import ChatPromptTemplate
from langchain_ollama.llms import OllamaLLM

template = """Question: {question}
"""

prompt = ChatPromptTemplate.from_template(template)

model = OllamaLLM(model="llama3.1")

chain = prompt | model

chain.invoke({"question": "What is LangChain?"})
```

## Innovative Product Design course

Today was the 1st day of IPD in the [Hannam Design Factory](http://df.hannam.ac.kr/kor/sub02/menu_02.html). It was from 9am to 6pm. 9 company and potential projects were presented to the students, and I selected a company called [Rastech ](http://www.rastech.co.kr/) who is looking for a robot that can help with security and patrolling. Me, in a group to make a robot? Well, the main idea of this course is to gather students from different backgrounds - finance, business, design, media, engineering, AI, and develop a project. So this is where I fit in - finance and AI. We will be working this as if it is a real project, with reports, a prototype, brochures, presentations. It is not only an opportunity to apply my skills to a real project (and also go deeper into computer vision), but also I will have the opportunity to work in a team with people from very different academic backgrounds and knowledge, and I can learn about different aspects of product development, while also helping my teammates by sharing my knowledge. 

We took photos, discussed the project, and did some team building exercises.

---

Tomorrow, the hackathon is a 24 hour event, so I will see how I will post for day 250. Of course I can sleep, but I will try to maximise my dev hours and commit to the real hackathon spirit of non-stop coding. 

That is all for today!

See you tomorrow :)
